---
layout: post
title: "How to Apply"
description: "A guide on how to apply to the DBF Team"
author: "Judd Mehr"
---

## More Info
If you'd just like to learn more about the team, then you should stop by one of our kick-off meetings at the beginning of each semester.  The next one will held at [**5 PM** on **Tuesday, September 7th** in room **EB 112**](#)

Or if the kick-off meeting already happened, you can stop by one of our team or sub-team meetings.  We try to limit the number of meetings we have as the semester progresses, but we usually have regular meetings for the first few weeks.

Our regular meeting times are:

|  Team  |   Day  |  Time  |  Location  |
|  ----  | :----: | :----: |   :----:   |
|  Full Team  |  TBD  |  |  |
|  Aerodyanmics  |  TBD  |  |  |
|  Structures  |  TBD  |  |  |
|  Manufacturing  |  TBD  |  |  |
|  Graphics  |  TBD  |  |  |
|  Propulsion  |  TBD  |  |  |
|  Systems  |  TBD  |  |  |

**NOTE:** If you're seeing this for the first time in October or later, you'll want to reach out to one of the [team leads](#), since regular meeting times have likely been changed (or abandoned in favor of more efficient communication).
<!-- TODO: update this link to go to team lead contact info -->


## Application Process:

### 1) Take the survey

If you'd like to apply, you need to start by taking [this survey](https://forms.gle/cVSoxY7EwWDKEFbEA), which will ask for some basic info (name and email, etc.) as well as have you self-report on your skill level in some of the major areas of focus for our team.

### 2) Sign the contract

The DBF team is a volunteer-based team.  There is currently no way to recieve class credit or any other compensation for working with the team (other than gaining skills, experience, socializing/networking, resume building, etc.)  Because of the volunteer nature of the team, we have found it necessary to incorporate some sort of formal commitment to participation.  Currently, this takes the form of a contract, which you can [download here](https://aeronautics.byu.edu/DBF/download/contract.pdf).

As part of the application process, you will have to print out, and physically fill in the details of this contract, sign and date it, and find two witnesses to sign and date it as well.  You will then present this to the Project Manager on the team who will keep it on file for the semester.  Every team member is required to go through this process at the beginning of each semeseter, or when they begin participating on the team.

You should also plan on tracking the time you spend working on team related projects to make sure you are keeping your commitment, as well as for details you can add to your resume/portfolio.

### 3) Join a Sub-team

After you've filled out the survey, someone on the team should reach out to you within a few days and point you in the direction of some of the team leads you may want to work with based on your skills and interests.  The team lead will be able to add you to the team Slack group, CAEDM group folder, and any other things you may need access to.

**NOTE:** At the very beginning of the semester, we may not actually have put all the team leads in place.  You may consider applying to be a team lead (which you should indicate in the additional information box in the survey).  Being a team lead is a great opportunity to build leadership skills and enhance your resume.  A team lead position, however, comes with extra responsibility to ensure that deliverables are on time and of sufficient quality.

### 4) Get to work

Once you've joined a sub-team, you'll probably be given things to work on right away.  Sometimes you'll be give very specific instructions on what to do, but most of the time your tasks are very open ended.  You're going to have to put in some initiative to learn things on your own, and reach out to more experienced team members for help and suggestions when you need it.

As you put in the time you commit to in your contract, we're confident that you will learn a lot along the way and have a great time as well.