---
layout: post
title: "How to Apply: a step-by-step guide on how to apply to the DBF Team"
author: "Judd Mehr"
---

## More Info
First things first.  If you'd just like to learn more about the team, then you should stop by one of our kick-off meetings which will be held at

**6 PM**
on
**Wednesday, September 1st**
and
**Tuesday, September 7th**
in room
**### EB**

Or if the kick-off meeting already happened, you can stop by one of our team or sub-team meetings.  We try to limit the amount meetings we have as the semester progresses, but we usually have to have regular meetings for the first few weeks.



Our regular meeting times are:

|  Team  |   Day  |  Time  |Location|
|--------|--------|--------|--------|
|Full Team|TBD|
|Aerodyanmics|TBD|
|Structures|TBD|
|Manufacturing|TBD|
|Graphics|TBD|
|Propulsion|TBD|
|Systems|TBD|

**NOTE:** If you're seeing this for the first time way in October or later, you're going to want to reach out to one of the [team leads](#), since regular meetings times have likely been changed (or abandoned in favor of more efficient communication).
<!-- TODO: update this link to go to team lead contact info -->


## Application Process:

### 1) Take the survey

If you'd like to go ahead and apply, you need to start by taking [this survey](https://forms.gle/cVSoxY7EwWDKEFbEA), which will ask for some basic info (name and email, etc.) as well as have you self report on your skill level in some of the major areas of focus for our team.

### 2) Sign the contract

The DBF team is a volunteer-based team.  There is currently no way to recieve class credit or any other compensation for working with the team (other than gaining skills, experience, socializing/networking, resume building, etc.)  Because of the volunteer nature of the team, we have found it necessary to incorporate some sort of formal commitment to participation.  Currently, this takes the form of a contract, which you can [download here](https://aeronautics.byu.edu/DBF/download/contract.pdf).

As part of the application process, you will have to print out, and physically fill in the details of this contract, sign and date it, and find two witnesses to sign and date it as well.  You will then present this to the Project Manager on the team who will keep it on file for the semester.  Every team member is required to go through this process at the beginning of each semeseter, or when they begin participating on the team.

You should also plan on tracking the time you spend working on team related projects to make sure you are keeping your commitment, as well as for details you can add to your resume/portfolio.
